***Data:----
    Data is an unprocessed iformation or raw information.
***Data Base:----
    It is the collection of information or unprocessed data in a place or contoiner.
    "By using data base we can achive data persistence."
***DBMS(Data Base Management System):----
    DBMS is a s/w which is used to create data base and we can store the data in data base s to achive data presistance.
   Types of DBMS:
   1.RDBMS(relational Data Base Management System)
   2.Hierachical DBMS
   3.Network DBMS
   4.Nosql DBMS
   5.Object Oriented DBMS
 Relational DBMS:-
    By using RDBMS data is organized into tables with rows and coloums the relationship b/w the data messeage to primary and foreign key.
    "sql is used to manipulate and store the data."
 Hierachical DBMS:-
    By use  this model we can organized the data in a tree like structure,where regards are connected to each other in a parent-child 
    relationaship.
 Network DBMS:-
    By use this model we can respect relationaship in a more fixable and complex structure compare to hierachical model.
 Nosql DBMS:-  
    By using this we can orginize data in the form of key value base,documents,graphs.
    "These are desined to handle large scale application."
   Object oriented DBMS:-
    By using this model we can store data as object simalar to object oriented programmoing.

***SQL:----
     Structure quary language
   SQL is a standared language for accessing and mainpulating data base.
***Data TYpe:----
      To store data in coloum of a table we need to specify data type.It is three types:
    1.string data type.
    2.Number data type.
    3.Date Data type.
    String data type:-
      By using string data type we can store group of character and we nedd to specify group of charactures with a single code and we have
     data type like
           char (20)
           varchar(size)
           varchar2(size)
           enum()
           set()
      -->To store large amount of data we have data type like block(Binary large object).
           Audio files,video files,images
    Number data type:-
      By using number data types we can store whole numbers and decimal values and we have the data type like:
      int,bright,integer,long,float,double.
    Date Data type:-
      By using date data types we can store date and time values and we have the data type like date,time,datetime or timestamp.
     Date->     storeformat(YYYY-MM-DD)
     Datetime-> YYYY-MM-DD    HH:MM:SS
     Time->      HH:MM:SS

                                                  SQL Commands
            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
            |                    |                      |                |               |
           DDL                  DML                    DQL              DCL             TCL 
       Create                  insert                select            grant           commit 
       alter                   update                                  revoke          roolback
       drop                    delete                                                  save point
       rename                  modify
       truncate

DDL: Data definition Language.
DML: Data mainpilation Language.
DQL: Data query Language.
DCL: Data control Language.
TCL: Transalation control Language.
